MED3D: TRANSFER LEARNING FOR 3D MEDICAL IMAGE ANALYSIS

Abstract:  1. Transfer learning from ImageNet speed up convergence and impove accuracy.
           2. Large datasets is challenging to build up due to the difficulty of data acquisition and annotation in 3D medical images.
           3. 3DSeg-8 dataset with diverse modalities, target organs, and pathologies was build.
           4. Med3D network was designed to train multi-domain 3DSeg-8 dataset to make a series of pre-trained models.
           5. Lung segmentation, pulmonary nodule classification, and liver segmentation tasks proved 
              the significant performance of Med3D in accelerating training convergence speed and improving accuracy.

Introduction: 1. The success of deep convolutional neural networks (DCNN) based on the massive amount of training data with detailed annotations. e.g. ImageNet and MS COCO
              2. Challenges in buiding large 3D medical image dataset: intrusive nature of some medical image modalities (e.g. CT), the prolonged imaging duration as well as the laborious annotation in 3D.
                 Tricks to improve model performance: convert 3D to 2D and apply transfer learning from natural images, or use 3D information from temperal video data.
                 Loss 3D spacial information and cause strong bias.
              3. Solutions: firstly, build a large 3D medical dataset. Secondly, establish a encoder-decoder network called Med3D.
              4. Contributions: (1) propose a heterogeneous Med3D network aiming for multi-domain medical data (2) tranfer backbone of the Med3D model to three new medical image task.
                                (3) Med3D is open-sourced.
                                
                                
Co-train models based on multi-domain 3D medical dateset

Method: 1. Data selection and normalization
           A. Data collected from 8 segmentation datasets rather than classification datasets. Because classification datasets contained a much weaker supervision as the label may only
           correspond to small portion of the volumn data. Segmentation task could result in better representative features.-->diversity in space reslution, intensity, scan region, etc.
           B. Spacial Normalization: images were resampled to median spacing in each domain to avoid overinteplotation. 
           C. Intensity Normalization: to eliminate the side-effect of pixel value outliers, sort all the pixel values in each image, truncate the intensities to the range of 0.5 and 99.5 percentiles and normalized the values using mean and standard deviation in each volumn.

        2. Med3D network
           A. a shared encoder and multi-branch decoder. Encoder can be transferred to other tasks.
           B. Transfer Learning
              Code: https://github.com/Tencent/MedicalNet.
